[docs] Introduced pktSentUnique, pktRecvUnique socket statistics (#1263)
Haivision/srt: docs/statistics.md

### pktSentTotal

> The total number of sent DATA packets, including retransmitted packets ([pktRetransTotal](#pktRetransTotal)). Available for sender.

Reviewer: Per mechanism explanation: "This metric is counted for every DATA packet that is sent over the network".

Author: I'll not add any additional comments here. I guess it's clear for the reader.

Reviewer: The problem here is that the word "sent" is ambiguous.

"Sent" can be a packet from the application to SRT connection, or a UDP packet carrying the SRT data packet over the network. This should be clarified.

In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](API.md)), this statistic counts sent packet filter control packets ([pktSndFilterExtraTotal](#pktSndFilterExtraTotal)) as well. Introduced in SRT v1.4.0.

### pktRecvTotal

> The total number of received DATA packets, including retransmitted packets ([pktRcvRetransTotal](#pktRcvRetransTotal)). Available for receiver.

Reviewer: Per mechanism explanation: "This metric is counted for every DATA packet that has been received over the network".

Author: The same as with pktSent.

> In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](API.md)), this statistic counts packet filter control packets ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)) as well. Introduced in SRT v1.4.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](API.md)), this statistic counts packet filter control packets ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)) as well. Introduced in SRT v1.4.0.
```

### pktSentUniqueTotal 

The number of unique DATA packets sent by the SRT sender. Available for sender. 

> This value contains only unique **original** DATA packets. Retransmitted DATA packets ([pktRetransTotal](#pktRetransTotal)) are not taken into account. In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), packet filter control packets ([pktSndFilterExtraTotal](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/wordeditorframe.aspx?ui=en-GB&rs=en-US&wopisrc=https%3A%2F%2Fhai365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FTeam-SRT%2F_vti_bin%2Fwopi.ashx%2Ffiles%2F421d054732ce45e08814ced46f033282&wdenableroaming=1&mscc=1&hid=53334D9F-F03D-B000-138D-338011C1234D&wdorigin=Other&jsapi=1&newsession=1&corrid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&usid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&instantedit=1&wopicomplete=1&wdredirectionreason=Unified_SingleFlush#pktSndFilterExtraTotal)) are not taken into account as well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This value contains only unique **original** DATA packets. Retransmitted DATA packets ([pktRetransTotal](#pktRetransTotal)) are not taken into account. Also, if the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), packet filter control packets ([pktSndFilterExtraTotal](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/wordeditorframe.aspx?ui=en-GB&rs=en-US&wopisrc=https%3A%2F%2Fhai365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FTeam-SRT%2F_vti_bin%2Fwopi.ashx%2Ffiles%2F421d054732ce45e08814ced46f033282&wdenableroaming=1&mscc=1&hid=53334D9F-F03D-B000-138D-338011C1234D&wdorigin=Other&jsapi=1&newsession=1&corrid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&usid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&instantedit=1&wopicomplete=1&wdredirectionreason=Unified_SingleFlush#pktSndFilterExtraTotal)) are not taken into account. 
```

> This value contains only unique **original** DATA packets. Retransmitted DATA packets ([pktRetransTotal](#pktRetransTotal)) are not taken into account. In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), packet filter control packets ([pktSndFilterExtraTotal](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/wordeditorframe.aspx?ui=en-GB&rs=en-US&wopisrc=https%3A%2F%2Fhai365.sharepoint.com%2Fsites%2FTeam-SRT%2F_vti_bin%2Fwopi.ashx%2Ffiles%2F421d054732ce45e08814ced46f033282&wdenableroaming=1&mscc=1&hid=53334D9F-F03D-B000-138D-338011C1234D&wdorigin=Other&jsapi=1&newsession=1&corrid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&usid=8ef94636-16cd-4a4f-ae0b-da2e3f2cacab&instantedit=1&wopicomplete=1&wdredirectionreason=Unified_SingleFlush#pktSndFilterExtraTotal)) are not taken into account as well. 

Reviewer: The link for `pktSndFilterExtraTotal` is somewhat excessive.

Per mechanism explanation, could be also added: This metric is counted for every case when a new (that is, not sent before) DATA packet has been sent over the network.

> By implementation, this value corresponds to the number of original DATA packets sent by the SRT sender and can be calculated as follows: `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal` or `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal - pktSndFilterExtraTotal` if the  `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled. The original packets are sent only once. 

Reviewer 2: (1) What does "By implementation" mean?
(2) Does the phrase "if the  `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled" refer to both calculation methods in that sentence?

Reviewer: The intention is to specify to which process this metric refers - it counts every packet sent over the network for the first time.

The mention of the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` option is to point out that this causes extra packets to be sent, and those are counted by `pktSndFilterExtra`, but these packets are NOT counted by this metric (in contrast to, for example `pktSent`). I think mentioning it in the last sentence is not necessary because if the packet filter is off, this value (`pktSndFilterExtraTotal`) is always 0 anyway.

> By implementation, this value corresponds to the number of original DATA packets sent by the SRT sender and can be calculated as follows: `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal` or `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal - pktSndFilterExtraTotal` if the  `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled. The original packets are sent only once. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This value corresponds to the number of original DATA packets sent by the SRT sender. It counts every packet sent over the network for the first time, and can be calculated as follows: `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal`, or by `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal - pktSndFilterExtraTotal` if the  `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled. The original packets are sent only once. 
```

> By implementation, this value corresponds to the number of original DATA packets sent by the SRT sender and can be calculated as follows: `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal` or `pktSentUniqueTotal = pktSentTotal – pktRetransTotal - pktSndFilterExtraTotal` if the  `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled. The original packets are sent only once. 

Reviewer: I'd explain it also that these are DATA packets that have been sent over the network for the first time.

Author: The same, I guess it's clear for the reader. Let's not overload the description.

### pktRecvUniqueTotal 

> The number of unique original or retransmitted DATA packets received by the SRT receiver in time. Available for receiver. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of unique original or retransmitted DATA packets received in time by the SRT receiver. Available for receiver. 
```

Author: @stevomatthews Changed this part a bit

The number of unique original or retransmitted DATA packets received **in time** by the SRT receiver and as a result successfully delivered to the application. Available for receiver.

Reviewer 2: Clearer, and therefore better!  :-)

> This value contains only **unique** (meaning "first arrived") DATA packets. There is no difference whether a packet is original or retransmitted (in case of loss). Whichever packet comes first is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count duplicate packets (retransmitted or sent several times by defective hardware/software) or arrived too late packets (retransmitted or original packets arrived out of order) and, as a result, dropped by the TLPKTDROP mechanism (see [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This value contains only **unique** (meaning "first arrived") DATA packets. There is no difference whether a packet is original or retransmitted (in case of loss). Whichever packet comes first is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count duplicate packets (retransmitted or sent several times by defective hardware/software) or arrived too late packets (retransmitted or original packets arrived out of order) and, as a result, dropped by the TLPKTDROP mechanism or packets failed to be decrypted (see [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic).
```

Reviewer: Yes, decrypt-failed packets are also not counted. This is consistent with the initial statement that this counts packets that are `successfully delivered to the application`. Undecrypted packets are dropped and never delivered.

Author: I've updated the description.

> This value contains only **unique** meaning first arrived DATA packets so that there is no difference whether it is original or retransmitted (in case of loss) packet that comes first and is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count the packets received as duplicated (retransmitted or sent several times by the defective hardware/software) or “too late to deliver” (retransmitted or reordered and as a result arrived too late). See [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic which counts “too late to deliver” packets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This value contains only **unique** (meaning "first arrived") DATA packets. There is no difference whether a packet is original or retransmitted (in case of loss). Whichever packet comes first is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count *duplicate* packets (retransmitted or sent several times by defective hardware/software) or *retransmitted packets* that are reordered and, as a result, arrive too late to deliver. See the [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic, which counts “too late to deliver” packets.
```

Author: @stevomatthews Changed to

This value contains only **unique** (meaning "first arrived") DATA packets. There is no difference whether a packet is original or retransmitted (in case of loss). Whichever packet comes first is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count duplicate packets (retransmitted or sent several times by defective hardware/software) or arrived too late packets (retransmitted or original packets arrived out of order) and, as a result, dropped by the TLPKTDROP mechanism (see [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic).

Reviewer 2: Good.

> This value contains only **unique** meaning first arrived DATA packets so that there is no difference whether it is original or retransmitted (in case of loss) packet that comes first and is taken into account. This statistic doesn't count the packets received as duplicated (retransmitted or sent several times by the defective hardware/software) or “too late to deliver” (retransmitted or reordered and as a result arrived too late). See [pktRcvDropTotal](#pktRcvDropTotal) statistic which counts “too late to deliver” packets.

Reviewer: I'd rather say "This metric counts only **unique** packets, meaning only those packets that are then delivered to the application, be it originally received or retransmitted. It doesn't count packets that duplicate some already received packet for whatever reason (this is counted by `pktRcvBelated`), or were received after being dropped by TLPKTDROP mechanism (this is counted by `pktRcvDropTotal`)".

Author: Duplicated packets may also arrive in time so that pktRcvBelated statistics does not count them all (only too late), that's why I am not referring to them here. Will mostly keep my description with a slight modification.

> In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), packet filter control packets  ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)) are not taken into account as well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), packet filter control packets  ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)) are also not taken into account. 
```

Author: @stevomatthews Changed to 

If the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](API.md)), this statistic also takes into account recovered by the packet filter DATA packets ([pktRcvFilterSupplyTotal](#pktRcvFilterSupplyTotal)) and does not take into account received packet filter control packets ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)).

Author: @stevomatthews One more comment left.

Reviewer 2: If the SRTO_PACKETFILTER socket option is enabled (refer to API.md), this statistic also takes into account DATA packets recovered by the packet filter (pktRcvFilterSupplyTotal), and does not take into account control packets received by the packet filter (pktRcvFilterExtraTotal).

> In case the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option is enabled (refer to [API.md](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/API.md)), this statistic also takes into account recovered by the packet filter packets ([pktRcvFilterSupplyTotal](#pktRcvFilterSupplyTotal)) and does not take into account received packet filter control packets ([pktRcvFilterExtraTotal](#pktRcvFilterExtraTotal)).

Reviewer: I think this link reference is wrong.

### pktSndFilterExtraTotal

> The total number of packet filter control packets sent by the SRT sender (refer to [SRT Packet Filtering & FEC](packet-filtering-and-fec.md)). Available for sender.

Reviewer: "generated by the packet filter"

The type of the packet filter control packets is DATA. These packets contain only packet filter control information and do not belong to the actual transmitted data.

> The `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` socket option should be enabled (refer to [API.md](API.md)). Introduced in SRT v1.4.0.

Reviewer: I'd rather say that if the packet filter hasn't been enabled by `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` option, this will be always 0.

Author: It's not true. If the option is not enabled, there would be no statistic present at all, at least in the csv output. I'll stay with my version.

### pktRcvFilterExtraTotal

> The total number of packet filter control packets received by the SRT receiver (refer to [SRT Packet Filtering & FEC](packet-filtering-and-fec.md)). Available for receiver.

Reviewer: The term "SRT receiver" is kinda ambiguous here. The rule is such that if the packet filter is enabled, then it is the first instance to receive a DATA packet - it then receives every such packet, and then makes a decision. It is not defined from upside what will happen in particular situation - only that a filter is free to do whatever it wants with the incoming packet. After that operation the filter simply supplies **0 or more packets**. What may happen then is that:
* incoming was FEC/CTL packet and the filter didn't rebuild anything - supplies 0 packets
* incoming was data packet, retransmitted, after FEC/CTL packet, which filled in the group gap and allowed 3 packets to be rebuilt (the "vicious square" case) - supplies 4 packets
* incoming was a FEC/CTL packet for a group that lacks exactly 1 packet - supplies 1 packet (although it's not the packet that has been received)

The best description that doesn't risk mistakes or unintentional lies, I think, would be:

The total number of packet filter control packets that have been received by the packet filter. These packets are of DATA packet type, but they only contain a control information for the packet filter and do not turn into any deliverable data packets.
